---
title: Computer
date: 2024-07-24 08:50:00 +08:00
categories: essay
layout: post
---

Steve Jobs’ [talk](https://stevejobsarchive.com/exhibits/objects-of-our-life) at the 1983 International Design Conference in Aspen:

电脑是什么

> Computers are very adapative.<br>
Computers are really dumb, exceptionally simple and really fast.<br>
It's a new medium.

电视节目和电脑程序

> Through the art of TV programming, we are very good at capturing a set of experiences and being able to recreate them... Computer programming does something different. What computer programming does is capturing the **underlying principles of those experiences**. Those principles can enable thousands of different experiences that all follow those laws, if you will.

记录所有想法的机器

> A book was a phenomenal thing. It got right from the source to the destination, without anything in the middle. <br><br>
The problem was, you cannot ask Aristotle a question. <br><br>
And I think if we look into the next 50 to 100 years, if we really can come up with these machines, that can capture an underlying spirit, or underlying set of principles, or underlying way of looking at the world, then when the next Aristotle comes around, maybe if he carries around one of these machines with him the whole life, and types in all the stuff, then maybe some day, after the person is dead and gone, we can ask this machine: "Hey, what would Aristotle would have said? What about this?" <br><br>
Maybe we won't get the right answer, but maybe we will. And that's really exciting to me.<br><br>
And that's one of the reasons why I am doing what I am doing.
